reconciliation-logic adr review (#160)
microsoft/ccf-app-samples: data-reconciliation-app/docs/adr/03-reconciliation-logic.md

## Requirements

> - Reconciliation is on each record.

Reviewer: Do we ever define what "Reconciliation" is?

Author: Added definition

> - Reconciled information will apply only to items for which a user has submitted data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reconciliation will only apply to data user submitted.
```

> - When a user requests for Reconciliation Report, logic on the current dataset stored in the network is executed for this user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When a user requests for Reconciliation Report, it will be generated by the current dataset stored in the network for that user.
```

> - Result will not present other Users' information on a specific record, but just a comparison with them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Result will only present current user's data compared with other users' data.
```

## When Reconciliation Happens

> This logic will be embedded in the reporting API, and anytime a member asks for their data to be reconciled (asks for a report), the application will do the necessary calculations based on the data this member has ingested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `/report` endpoint, when a user requests for a Reconciliation Report, it will be generated by the data that user ingested previously.
```

> With this approach, Data Ingestion will be decoupled from any rules related to Reporting/Reconciliation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This decouples data ingestion from reconciliation reporting.
```

> This will be done by querying the KV Store for the keys a user has submitted data for. Data related to keys that are unknown to this user will not be present in the final report and will not be considered for reconciliation. Therefore, the reconciled data they get is only related to their submitted information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reconciliation is implemented by querying CFF KV Store for all the keys this user submitted. Any keys unknown to this user is not used in the reconciliation report. This ensures the user only generates a report with their submissions.
```

## Scenarios

### Querying for a Specific Record

> Users may want to reconcile a specific record. This will be accomplished by directly querying the record in the KV Storage and comparing the user's value to others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a user requests for a Reconciliation Report by a specific key, it is generated by comparing that key's value to other users' submissions.
```

Checks will be done if the user has submitted this specific record.

### Querying for all Data

> Users may want to reconcile all the data they submitted. This will be accomplished by scanning the KV Storage, identifying the records this User has submitted, and applying the same comparison logic as for a specific record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a user requests for a Reconciliation Report for all keys, it is generated by comparing all those keys' value to other users' submissions.
```

## Rules

> **Current User:** The User requesting a reconciled report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Current User:**  User requesting Reconciliation Report
```

> Each record will have all members' opinions on it. So, for each record, the reconciliation will be performed by comparing the current user's opinion to others'.

Reviewer 2: In all previous points, we use `user` and `key`/`value`. Now, this is mentioning `member`, `record` and `opinion`. Is it consistent?

Author: Have updated in most of the places to user and key/value.

### Voting Threshold

> Reconciliation logic is considered only if a specified number of users have submitted that record. The `voting_threshold` determines if the record has been submitted by enough users. This is configurable and can be set by members of the network, depending on the size of the network.

Reviewer: Maybe add a link to where voting threshold is defined in the code?

Author: Added!

- `NOT_ENOUGH_DATA` : If the count of users who submitted that key is less than the `voting_threshold`.
- `LACK_OF_CONSENSUS`: If the threshold is met and at least one of the submitted values differs from all of the others.
- `IN_CONSENSUS`: If the threshold is met and all the users have submitted the same value.

This state will come under the `group_status` field in the final Report.

### Sample Summary Result Schema and Report Mapping

In addition to `group_status`, additional statistics will be retrieved for the record to be later consolidated in the Report:

- Total number of values submitted (useful for reporting but will not be made public)
- Number of distinct values for that key (count of different opinions for the record)
- Number of members that agree with the current user
- If the member's opinion is in accordance with the majority or minority of votes

Information will be consolidated into a Summary Result object that will be used by the Reporting API.
The following proposed schema represents a reconciled record. The output Report will then be generated based on this data.

```json
{

>   "key": "<record key>",

Reviewer: rename key to `lei`

rename value to `nace`

Also make comment, the key and value will match the schema defined

Author: Updated!
